Now in order to create a Docker action based
on that Docker file and the code
that's kind of related to it,
I'll add a new action.yml file.
As mentioned multiple times, that's always the same.
Now, we also add a name here,
deploy to AWS S3, for example, and a description,
and I'll simply copy the description
from my JavaScript action because it is the same.
And then, we also add the runs key
just as we did it for the composite
and the JavaScript actions.
Now here we also must set using,
but here we must set it to Docker.
That's important, it must be set to Docker,
and this tells GitHub Actions that this is a Docker action.
You also must add the image key then,
and here, we have to write Dockerfile,
to be precise, we have to provide the path
to our Docker file that defines the container.
Alternatively, you could also refer
to some publicly available image here,
for example, an image on Docker hub.
And as before, the official documentation informs you
about all the values that can be added
to runs for Docker actions.
Besides the image, which as mentioned, could also point
at some public repository,
you can also override various settings from the image file,
but this is a bit more advanced
and not something we'll need for this example.
These here are the two main settings
you must provide though.
Now with that, this Docker file would be executed
or would be used and the container would be created
based on that file in the end,
but that's not enough for this action.
Instead, just as the JavaScript action,
this action needs some inputs,
because it does the same thing as the JavaScript action.
It uploads files to a S3 bucket
and therefore we must inform the action
about the bucket name, the region,
and the folder that contains the files
that should be uploaded.
Therefore, I'll copy all the inputs
from the JavaScript action.yml file
over to this Docker action.yml file,
because we need the same inputs.
I also want to get the same output
so I'll copy this as well.
And that's also important regarding inputs and outputs,
the syntax is the same
for Docker actions and JavaScript actions.
We register inputs like this
and as explained before for the JavaScript action,
and we do the same for the outputs.
Now, what is different though is how we access those inputs
in the code that's executed in the container
and how we set outputs from inside that code.
And you see how it works here in deployment.py.
For accessing inputs,
we're effectively using special environment variable,
and these are environment variables
which are automatically generated by GitHub Actions.
For every input, we specify in our action.yml file,
GitHub Actions generates an environment variable
that starts with input underscore, all caps,
and then the name of your input also all caps.
So our bucket input becomes INPUT_BUCKET.
Our bucket-region input becomes INPUT_BUCKET-REGION.
So that's how these inputs are made available
inside of your code running in the container.
And it's a super easy way of extracting and using
those input values in that code, by simply using
these automatically set environment variables.
Of course, you could still add extra environment variables
in your Workflow file and we'll actually do that later.
And those environment variables
would also be available here.
But these are some automatically generated variables
that can be used for using the inputs.
And when it comes to setting that output that we have here,
the website url output, that's done with a syntax
that we know from earlier in the course
with this ::set-output command
which is simply print to the console here.
Print in Python is like echo in the shell,
and it simply uses this set output command
to set the website url output of this action
to this dynamic value,
which is this dynamically generated website url.
So this line of code does not output the value
in the command line or in the shell,
but instead, it uses this special command
to set the output of this action.
And that's how this Docker action works.
And with that, we're already done and we can use this action
and I will use it again here in the workflows file.
There, I will simply replace this JavaScript action
with the Docker action because it fulfills the same purpose,
it uploads files, it takes the same input,
it returns the same output,
therefore, this action folder name
is the only thing that must be replaced.
And what's also important is
that we still must set the access keys here,
the AWS access keys.
We still must set those
because as before with the JavaScript action,
of course by default,
you would not be able to upload files to S3.
By default, that's not allowed.
But like the AWS CLI, this AWS SDK,
which we're using here in our code,
this boto3 package in the end automatically looks
for environment variables with these names
to authenticate those outgoing AWS requests.
So if these environment variables exist here
with valid values for your account,
this upload file command will succeed.
Otherwise, it would fail.
And that's why we must provide these environment variables
for this step with this custom action as well.
Now, with that, we can save all files,
create a new commit,
added docker action,
and push this.
With this, a new workflow run is triggered
and we cannot wait for this to finish
and it should finish successfully this time
using our custom Docker action.
So let's wait for it to finish here.
Here we go, it did finish successfully.
It outputs this url which we can click to view this website.
And under deploy site,
we see that it used this Docker image
that it built that image
that various environment variables
were provided automatically to the image,
amongst them, these input variables,
which I mentioned before.
And overall, the files were deployed,
everything worked as intended,
and this is how you can build custom Docker actions.